Welcome to Los Santos.
The city of celluloid,
sin,
and cellulite removal.
From dead starlets in Vinewood,
to the gang bangers in Davis and Strawberry,
and terrorist cells in Chumash,
to the drunken tourists in Del Perro Pier.
It's time to take a look inside this
cesspit of destroyed dreams,
drug addled degenerates,
and deluded desperados
that make up this...
great city of lights.
Hi,
I'm decorated FIB agent Steven Haines.
The FIB,
the Police Department
and the Sheriff's Office
are fighting a war out here every day.
In a city where dreams too often become wet...
with tears.
The Los Santos Docks,
this is where it all begins.
The second largest port in the world,
the great orifice of American capitalism.
Stuff coming in,
garbage going out.
And hidden in over two million containers
a day,
God only knows what.
The Cartels pay off some low level schlob,
and suddenly you've got...
Military grade weapons,
badly cut crystal meth,
and grade A Yay-Yo from Mexico
flooding our streets.
And once it hits the hood,
it's anarchy.
A side of murder, hold the fries!
Or maybe the Chinese are slipping some of
our
high security weapons systems in with the
recycling.
And we're giving up our national security
for nothing?
Who knows?
Who cares?
As long as the financial party continues,
we'll just keep picking up the pieces.
A word to the wise kids,
never use PCP,
it makes you wanna punch cops,
and run around naked.
And not necessarily always in that order.
Most of the time this illicit cargo makes
it straight to the gangs.
But sometimes an ordinary Joe lets go,
and loses his shit after a pipe or two of
pleasure dust.
The Vagos.
Blood thirsty 'Chicanos' with a predilection
for
pain,
papaya juice,
and spicy plantains.
They're one of the largest Mexican street
gangs in the city.
With rumored connections to several major
mafias.
While half the battle out here is fought with
guns,
the other half is with informants.
Sometimes you need to become the bad guys,
to bust the bad guys.
Alright guys, let's go!
When Ballas and the Families aren't shooting
each other,
they're selling the dope
that the junkies are shooting in to their
veins.
The Families love sports almost as much as
they love banging.
Flashy,
arrogant,
competitive and aggressive.
They are life long bitter enemies of the Ballas.
Wearing the colors of the Feud or the Corkers.
The Families call themselves gang green.
Of course, like all families
they love a good squabble.
Subdivided in to sets such as,
The Chamberlain Gangsters,
or the Carson Avenue Set.
It turns out the Families love shooting each
other,
almost as much as they love shooting Ballas.
Now the LSPD have had many run-ins with various
Family sets over the years.
With the Ballas, the FIB take a more community
outreach approach.
H-hey guys, stay out of trouble now.
Suck my dick, Steve fucking Haines.
Now the Ballas fly the colors of the Los Santos
Panic,
Or the Boars,
purple.
Because they are the bruise on the face of
this city.
While some thugs obviously prefer four wheels,
other desperados prefer two.
Leather,
exhaust,
and drugs.
No!
This isn't an exotic S&M party,
these are one of the nation's toughest
outlaw motorcycle gangs.
The Lost.
Rumors are they get a new tattoo for every
person they stab.
And it's definitely okay for your motorcycle
momma
to show her breasts to your friends.
The FIB has been tracking the Lost for years.
We've jumped from coast to coast,
and have spent more time in the Midwest
than a tornado spotter.
When they're not running meth,
they're smoking it,
or so I hear a dangerous new drug on the streets
called
Toilet Cleaner.
And believe me,
your toilet will be cleaned after you've smoked
some of it.
Of course, Vinewood being Vinewood,
it's not all about leathery dudes trying to
show off on their motorbikes,
or roided up gangbangers stuck in some nineties
time warp.
This is the town that made mass murder,
into nostalgia.
Of course, to become truly popular,
your murder has to be both unsolved and gruesome.
In a town full of alien spotters,
adults dressed as zombies,
and entertainers dressed as cartoon characters,
it takes something particularly awful,
to really catch people's attention.
The famous unsolved murder of a Vinewood starlet
is one such case.
For years,
horny nerds have wondered,
what happened to Leonora Johnson?
And if they would have plucked up the courage,
to speak to her,
or kill her themselves?
It's inspired film makers,
writers,
and copycat killers.
Conspiracy theorists
have blamed various celebrities,
the mayor,
the Soviets,
short skirts,
women's liberation,
and hidden aliens embedded amongst us for
the murder.
But not all crime is premeditated.
Maybe drinking's your thing.
Look at this drunken buffoon,
proving that...
there doesn't always need to be criminal intent,
to cause serious criminal damage.
Or maybe you're just an over privileged poppycock
living on daddy's pension and
protesting about the unfairness of capitalism.
Maybe stock market manipulation is your bag?
or loan sharking,
double identity theft,
assassination,
or even worse...
swinging!
On our next episode,
I, Steven Haines will show you the flashier
side of crime in Los Santos,
Illegal street racing,
cocaine, and vice.
Yes.
Speed, snort and sex.
The alliterative threesome that helped hook
America on
The Underbelly of Paradise.